Project Requirements and Detailed Design
-------------------
## Team Members

Jordan Bender, Ya Ting Chang, Arpit Chaudhary, Chi Zhang, Jianfu Zhang

## Background

The NYC Parking Office could use this data to determine such things as: when and where tickets are most likely to be issued and information of the year, make, and model of the car. This can help determine neighborhoods that would benefit from additional parking signage or advertising, areas that would benefit from additional enforcement foot patrols, and to understand the flow of traffic congestion. 

## Executive Summary 

Our data is from the NYC Department of Finance. They collect data on every parking ticket issued in NYC. We essentially want to build a warehouse for the data, and get insights about NYC Traffic congestion situation and parking efficiency, as well as metrics for neighborhood parking violations.
		 	 	 		
# Business Questions

-What time slots are tickets most likely to be issued in Brooklyn on Friday evening rush hours?

-What borough suffers the most parking violations on weekends?

-Which season are people more likely to park unlawfully?

-Number of tickets issued per month total over quarter over year. (clarify)  

-Which county generated most fine amount in Q3?

-Are there any places in the city that are in need of better parking signage?

-Weight violation price based on affected violation areas (dividing sum money generated by number of streets where violation happened)

-Revenue difference if Brooklyn violation price were higher  

-The most frequent violation type in each season (self-explanatory) 

## Business Terms and Definitions

”Summons” may be used interchangeably with tickets in this project. They refer to the same process of receiving a parking violation ticket from a city official. Further information regarding violation description or type is available at the following website: http://www1.nyc.gov/site/finance/vehicles/services-violation-codes.page

Other definitions will be made intuitive as we expand and clarify descriptions for ease of a general audience.  
 

## Data Source

“The NYC Department of Finance collects data on every parking ticket issued in NYC (~10M per year!). This data is made publicly available to aid in ticket resolution and to guide policymakers.” From: 

[Parking Violations Issued - Fiscal Year 2017](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/Parking-Violations-Issued-Fiscal-Year-2017/2bnn-yakx)

We are mostly interested in the data columns that give us information about the violation types and cost, the geography, date and time, ticket-issuing precinct, and vehicle information. These main distinctions allow us to answer most of our business questions. 

## Design 

(1) Detailed Data Model

--- Transaction Fact Table. Because we are looking for one-time transaction based data that do not aggregate over time. Insights about each transaction are needed for further analysis, so the grains of our data is essentially tickets issued, time, date, location, issuer, car. 

--- Nightly, because the precincts might want to send out letters of ticket issuance as soon as possible, and nightly is a fair setting for fact table reloading.

(2) Dimensional Load Strategy

Our dimension tables will be loaded from our two source data files; Dim_Issuer : Might change precinct

(3) Technical Metadata Mapping

See attached metadata file

(4) Physical Capacity Plan

Time Dimension

	•1440 minutes x 1 KB per row = 1.5 MB

Date Dimension

	•3,650 dates (10 years) x 1 KB per row = 3.5 MB

Issuer Dimension

	•14,000 issuers (original)  x 2 (10 years) x 2 KB per row = 45 MB

Location Dimension

	•150 locations x 5KB per row = 0.8 MB

Vehicle Dimension

	•90,000cars  x 7 (10 years) x 3KB per row = 1,850 MB


Total Dimensions = 1900.8 MB = around 1.9 GB

Fact Table

	• Assume 100,000 transactions per year

	•100,000 records x 1KB per record = 97 MB

	• 97 MB * 10 years = 970 MB

Total Size = Fact + Dimensions

Total Size = 1900.8 MB + 970 MB = 2.8 GB

## Technology

	-SQL Server 2016

	-SQL Server Integration Services

	-Python

	-R
